BASICS LINUX COMMAND
1.	WHAT IS LINUX  -  Linux is an os it is open source and  it is a multitasking and multiuser with powershell and multiple flavors. Flavours like ubuntu,centos,redhat,fedora,kalilinux etc.
2.	LINUX FILE SYSTEM HIERARCHY -  in linux everything is represented as a file including a hardware program the files is stored in a directory and every directory contains a file with a tree structure that is called file system hierarchy.
•	1./ (Root): Primary hierarchy root and root directory of the entire file system hierarchy. Every single file and directory starts from the root directory
•	The only root user has the right to write under this directory

2. /bin : Essential command binaries that need to be available in single-user mode; for all users, e.g., cat, ls, cp. 
Contains binary executables Commands used by all the users of the system are located here e.g. ps, ls, ping, grep, cp 

3. /boot : Boot loader files, e.g., kernels, initrd. 
 
•	Kernel initrd, vmlinux, grub files are located under /boot

4. /dev : Essential device files, e.g., /dev/null. 
•	These include terminal devices, usb, or any device attached to the system.

5. /etc : Host-specific system-wide configuration files.

6. /home : Users’ home directories, containing saved files, personal settings, etc.
•	Home directories for all users to store their personal files.

7. /lib : Libraries essential for the binaries in /bin/ and /sbin/.

8. /media : Temporary mount directory for removable devices.


9. /mnt : Temporarily mounted filesystems.

10. /opt : Optional application software packages.

•	11. /sbin : Essential system binaries, e.g., fsck, init, route. Just like /bin, /sbin also contains binary executables.

•	Example: iptables, reboot, fdisk, ifconfig, swapon
 
12. /tmp : Temporary files. Often not preserved between system reboots, and may be severely size restricted.
•	Directory that contains temporary files created by system and users.
•	Files under this directory are deleted when system is rebooted.

13. /usr : Secondary hierarchy for read-only user data; contains the majority of (multi-)user utilities and applications. 
•	/usr/bin contains binary files for user programs. If you can’t find a user binary under /bin, look under /usr/bin. For example: at, awk, cc, less, scp

Linux Basics Command

1.	ls - The most frequently used command in Linux to list directories
2.	pwd - Print working directory command in Linux
3.	cd - Linux command to navigate through directories
4.	mkdir - Command used to create directories in Linux
5.	mv - Move or rename files in Linux
6.	cp - Similar usage as mv but for copying files in Linux
7.	rm - Delete files or directories
8.	touch - Create blank/empty files
9.	ln - Create symbolic links (shortcuts) to other files
10.	cat - Display file contents on the terminal
11.	clear - Clear the terminal display
12.	echo - Print any text that follows the command
13.	less - Linux command to display paged outputs in the terminal
14.	man - Access manual pages for all Linux commands
15.	uname - Linux command to get basic information about the OS
16.	whoami - Get the active username
17.	tar - Command to extract and compress files in Linux
18.	grep - Search for a string within an output
19.	head - Return the specified number of lines from the top
20.	tail - Return the specified number of lines from the bottom
21.	diff - Find the difference between two files
22.	export - Export environment variables in Linux
23.	zip - Zip files in Linux
24.	unzip - Unzip files in Linux
25.	ssh - Secure Shell command in Linux
26.	service - Linux command to start and stop services
27.	ps - Display active processes
28.	kill and killall - Kill active processes by process ID or name
29.	df - Display disk filesystem information
30.	mount - Mount file systems in Linux
31.	chmod - Command to change file permissions
32.	chown - Command for granting ownership of files or folders
33.	ifconfig - Display network interfaces and IP addresses
34.	wget - Direct download files from the internet
35.	top - View active processes live with their system usage
36.	useradd and usermod - Add new user or change existing users data
37.	passwd - Create or update passwords for existing users
38.	history -  used to view the previously executed command. 
